The Joe Rogan experience.
It's harming fiction and harming literature that you can explore the darker
ideas, you know? Oh.
You want to see me crucify myself right.
Now? Yeah. Okay. This.
Is kind of the, uh, career ending moment for, uh,
for several years, I was in a writer's workshop and, uh,
the core group of us had been meeting since 1990.
So this is a workshop that was almost 30 years old,
and gradually people were asking each
other, not to use certain words. Uh, first, you know,
nobody really used the N word,
but it was definitely a word you could not bring to workshop. And then I,
in a story, I used the word and a very good friend of mine said,
you're not bringing that word into workshop.
You're not writing anything with the F word. And,
and it just became more and more tightly structured that way.
And so eventually I realized we were kind of writing to make each other
happy instead of, to kind of confront each other. And, uh,
one of the writers in our workshop is a writer named Cheryl strayed, who re,
who had written a book called wild, which was a hugely successful book.
It was chosen as an Oprah book and it will be on bookstore shelves for the
rest of history. Cheryl's book wild. But while she was writing it,
she had written a segment about how as a child,
she would be sat on the sofa with her grandfather and her
grandfather taught her how to him. And so as a child,
she would her grandfather until he achieved orgasm.
And then later she would find these featherless
featherless birds that had fallen out of a nest and she picked one
up and she knew it would die.
So she crushed it between her bare hands. This is a very small child.
And she wrote how as that bird died crushed between her
hands. It it's death rows.
It's spasms of death felt exactly like her grandfather's penis
in her little hand. Whoa,
that was the best thing she ever wrote.
And her editor,
Rick not said that is not going in this book because we
want this book to be a big book.
And if we see you jerking off your grandfather and then killing baby
birds, that is not going to make Oprah Winfrey happy.
So it was a magnificent piece of writing and a magnificent kind of
parallel and awareness for a child to have.
And this juxtaposition of sexual abuse and death, it was magnificent.
Oh my God, it worked on every level, but the publisher said,
this is not going to be in the book. Did she send it to you?
Or did she show it to you? She brought her to work and she read it.
There was even a newspaper reporter, uh,
present there and we all realized it was fantastically powerful,
but then she said, uh, they won't take this, this can't go in.
This is not the first workshop I've been bumped out of.
The first workshop I was in was a very, a lot of very nice ladies.
And I was probably 28 and I had written a scene in which, uh,
a man, a young man has done up an inflatable sex doll.
So it looks exactly like the woman he's obsessed with and during
the, the seduction of this sex doll,
he accidentally snags the back of it with the zipper of its dress.
And he realizes during the fornication that it is gradually losing
air.
So he's got to copulate faster and faster to try to achieve orgasm
before this thing completely goes flat. And at the end of the scene,
he standing there with this completely deflated sex doll hanging off of his
erection like this, the surrender flag.
And of course his mother walks into the room.
And after I wrote that scene, the leader of the workshop,
I was in my first workshop,
she took me aside afterwards and she said, ah,
the other writers in the workshop no longer feel safe around you.
She really did. She.
You said you've written something that really frightens them. Uh,
and they would like you to, uh, politely, uh,
leave the workshop and not come back. Wow. And so that's when I started with,
uh, Tom Spann Bauer's workshop in which almost anything went,
um.
That if anybody's going to appreciate that it's going to be creative writer.
But it's not my mind. I'm delving into the deep recesses.
If I'm lucky,
if I'm doing it right of your mind of something that
they'll like comedians, they'll say, oh my gosh, that happened to you too.
And a lot of times there are things that people have never,
ever talked about. Uh,
I tell a classic anecdote after I'd read the, uh,
the gut story at an event, a woman came up and,
uh, and she was a middle-aged woman. She was about my age. And she said,
I really love that. You read that story about how you,
uh, got your anus prolapsed while masturbating in a swimming pool,
which is not my story, but I'm the one that read it. So that's the one,
I'm the one that they're picturing in this horrendous situation.
And she says, since you tell that story, I'm going to tell you a story.
And she said how, when, when she was seven years old,
she was in second grade and she was in a little organization called the
brownies, which is a precursor to the girl Scouts. You,
you wear a brown dress, little brown hat, you get these little merit badges.
And she said,
one day I had a stomach ache and my mom kept me home from
school. And we had this heating pad.
It must've been in the 1960s and this heating pad had this vibrating function.
And she put me face down on this heating pad on my stomach and I fell asleep.
And while I was asleep, this vibrating warm,
heating pad must have slid down between my legs. She says,
because I woke up with the most amazing feeling I feeling
like I had never felt before, oh my God, it felt so good.
And so
next time it was my turn to host the brownies. I said, brownies,
you've got to try this heating pad. And she says, all the brownies,
they turn the heating pad on the vibrating heating pad.
And they wrote it like a pony all afternoon. And she said,
it was like sex in the city for seven-year-old girls.
They could not get enough of this heating pad.
And they were all riding this heating pad and they had a great time.
And she said, and for the first time in my life,
I was the most popular girl in my class.
And I was the girl that all the girls wanted to play with.
And for every brownie troop meeting, it was at my house.
And I was the leader until the day that my mother came home from work early.
And she caught us with a heating pad and she sent the other brownies home
and she whipped the cord out of the wall. She just ripped it out of the socket.
And she started to beat me with it.
And she beat me with that cord and she beat me. And she said, you piece of.
You dirty. What kind of a am I raising you?
And she beat me. She beat me. And she says, this woman,
who's my age. Now she says,
I have not had an orgasm since I was seven years old.
And then she goes,
but if you can tell that swimming pool story about how you got hurt,
jacking off under water, she says, I can tell my heating pad story.
And I can tell that story until I can make it funny.
And then maybe somebody I can go back to my mom and I can say,
do you remember that heating pad we used to have? And it'll be complete.
Oh. And so CC, CC, that's what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to create the opening for, to tell these stories that they,
they never thought that they could tell,
because that's the way in which they're going to resolve these stories.
And they're going to master these stories. It's comedy.
If you,
if someone's telling a joke of someone's on stage talking about someone who's
fat and there's a fat person in the front row, that joke will bomb. Yeah.
It just, yeah, but that's because people are good people overall, you know,
they, they recognize that they don't want to cause pain.
Another really odd comic Davidson Tara's story is that he always told
me, uh, when you're on the road, don't read from your current book,
always read from the next book,
because it's the way of road testing the stories and finding out which ones work
and should go into the next book and in doing so,
he was telling this story about being in this, uh, this forensic, uh, uh,
laboratory as an, as an autopsy was taking place.
And this autopsy table was adjacent to this,
this huge indoor window that separated the autopsy suite
from this lunch room and in the lunch room where the rest of the, uh,
the forensic staff and they're all eating their lunches.
They all had tuna sandwiches and cans of Coke and barbecued potato chips.
And they were watching through the window as this absolutely perfect
12 year old boy was being autopsied and just hours
before this kid, like two hours before this kid had been riding his bicycle,
he'd fallen over, he'd hit his head on the curb. And now two hours later,
he was dead and dead without almost a scratch on him,
just this perfect naked,
dead 12 year old boy on the autopsy table. And as he,
the, the technicians eating their lunch,
watching it through a window that they watch as the, uh,
as the, uh,
pathologist in sizes around the top of the kid's face at the top
of the forehead, the hairline, and then peels the face down like peeling,
an orange peels,
the entire face off of the skull of this little boy and leaves the
face around the neck, like a mask, like a rubber mask.
And this exposes this liver colored,
dark red musculature of the child's underlying face.
And this one guy watching it with a mouth full of tuna sandwich.
He points this out and he says, see that,
that there that's the color of red that I want to paint our rec room.
Holy.
And once the Doris told that story in front of 600 people,
it was dead silent, and you could hear people, weeping,
people were crying and they were hating David Sedaris in that moment.
And so I had to laugh. I laughed really loud, like a.
Donkey. And it was amazing how that hatred.
In that auditorium swung from hating David,
who they did not want to hate to hating this over here who was
actually laughing.
And so I threw myself on the sword for David and that story never went in any
book.
Wow. Did the story not go in any book,
just because of the reaction by the audience or just the uncomfortable moment he
just decided he'd speak to him.
No, I didn't. Not afterwards. It was just such an awkward, painful thing.
I would never kind of throw it back in his face, right. To my knowledge.
That was the only time the story was told.
Do you have those like, scattered about, are there, there there's,
are there scenes where you wrote and you just sat and looked at him and went,
no, I just gotta put that one somewhere else. Oh, they set that aside.
Jokes that I told where I got hissed by 800 people. And, you know.
As you can live through those moments, you realize you can live through a lot.
You can be hated.
By 1100 people at a Barnes and noble on union square. Oh yeah.
You can be hated by your mother. It's. Okay.
Now, when those people come to see you,
how many of those people are fans of literature and how many of those people are
specifically fans of your work? Like there's,
there would be a difference like that people were fans of your work would at
least expect some uncomfortable moments. And.
For the most part that tend to be, uh, more or less just fans of my work, uh.
Instill it's still hiss.
Oh yeah. But it's, again,
they're hissing on behalf of someone than I hissing up for themselves.
You know, I made this horrible cheap shot and they always know a cheap shot.
People always know a cheap shot. I, uh,
I was commenting about how in breakfast at Tiffany's Truman Capote had made this
observation that Americans don't like true beauty,
true classical, natural beauty.
They want to see a very plain person who has been so groomed, so exercised,
so made up so style stylized that she can kind of pass as
this, this amazing,
strange beauty.
That's what Americans want because natural classic beauty is not
egalitarian. You're either born with it or you're not.
They want to see a plain person who has been transformed.
And to make my point at the end of the story, I made a cheap shot. I said,
and that's why we have Sarah Jessica Parker.
And I said this in New York and.
In New York, Sarah,
Jessica Parker is worshiped like a God and that whole crowd
hissed and booed and did everything, but throw excrement at me.
Wow. But then later in line,
half of them came up and whispered that really funny.
Another thing is I I'm really, really conflicted about the nature of my,
uh, creativity, uh, this idea that in journalism school, they,
they call the theory seduce in betray that when you go into an interview
situation,
your goal is to gain the trust of that person and to get them to reveal
something very intimate that you're going to betray by revealing to the public.
So you're just, you're basically going in there to,
to charm them and then to hurt them. And, uh,
and so much of my creative process is that way, because, uh, for example, the,
the, the gut story, the, the, the,
the story in which the guy puts the carrot up his blood,
that was my best friend at the time in like late
twenties. And he got fantastically drunk and he told me that carrot story.
And I honestly believe he had never told anybody the carrot story.
And I, I kept that story in my mind for, you know, 10, 15,
almost probably 20 years until I found a way to put it with three similar
stories and make a larger piece out of it.
And the first time I read that story,
I hadn't seen him in maybe a couple of years, this friend,
and I look across this big auditorium. And there he is.
And I'm telling his carrot story in front of hundreds and hundreds of people
and the look on his face, he's just stricken.
And he hasn't talked to me sad.
And this is why even, even David's use.
His name, no, then him.
No, but what's wrong with him. People still feel betrayed and.
Get over it. You.
Need to hang out with more comedians. If he's a comic, you'd be laughing. Well,
you know, David Sedaris.
Is, has told me,
he said his family is very reluctant to share their lives with him anymore
because he's kind of made them involuntary public figures.
And they have to deal with the fallout from these stories about them.
And really only his brother and his sister,
Amy have kind of been able to spin this in a good way,
but it alienates a lot of people. Uh,
I had a hired car from Philadelphia to New York once on, on tour.
And as we're going past Liberty hall in Philadelphia, this,
this great guy with a Philly accent driving the car, you points at Liberty hall.
And he says that building has stood for, you know, 300 years.
I bet you can't tell me why.
And I just looked. And I said,
because the bricks are laid in Flemish bond.
I think that's probably it where the brick bricks are offset in such a way that
they, they bond in the center called Flemish bond. And it guys
so silent nobody's ever answered the question.
And his father was a bricklayer and he was so proud and he goes, you're right.
Nobody's ever said blemish bond.
That's why it's still stands.
And we were best friends and just talking like crazy all the way into
Manhattan. We get into Manhattan. There's two guys walking down the street,
the guy goes, oh, Christ. I hate coming to New York. Ah,
the facts. And I said, well, you know,
I'm married to a man. And is pretty much my middle name.
And that poor guy had to do this whole
science read juggling of everything that the guy who knew Flemish
bond was also one of them.
Oh.
And it was one of those wonderful kind of a icky but
necessary moments. And I know they're horrible,
but you know, things are better afterwards.
You must have loved that moment though. You know,
it was a horrible moment because I felt like I was throwing away any kind of
chatty conversational relationship I had with this guy.
It seemed like just a salt of the earth. Great, funny guy.
And it was just kind of going out on a limb and saying, okay, you know,
he's going to hate my guts after this. Oh yeah.